Draft Quay Migration RFD (#12985)
gravitational/teleport: rfd/0058-oci-public-images.md

## **Details**
In this RFD, we propose migrating from Quay to [Harbor](https://goharbor.io/).

Moving our public image infrastructure from Quay to Harbor gives us improved security controls with support for:
* [SSO through Okta](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/administration/configure-authentication/oidc-auth/)
* [Tag immutability](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/working-with-projects/working-with-images/create-tag-immutability-rules/)
* [Audit Logs](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/working-with-projects/project-configuration/access-project-logs/)
* Support for multiple [vulnerability scanners](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/administration/vulnerability-scanning/)
* [Robot Accounts](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/administration/robot-accounts/) with various permission combinations
* And much more... 

**Why not use Dockerhub or other equivalents?**

There is existing precedence within Teleport for maintaining close control of the distribution of our software. See:
* Cloud [RFD 0004](https://github.com/gravitational/cloud/blob/master/rfd/0004-Release-Asset-Management.md)

> * Terraform Registry [RFD 0002](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport-plugins/blob/master/rfd/0002-custom-terraform-registry.md)

Author: Pro tip

#### **S3**
Harbor supports using S3 as a storage backend for images. Amazon S3 will be leveraged for this purpose. An S3 bucket will be created in the `teleport-prod` AWS account and will strictly follow standards as set in [Artifact Storage Standards](https://github.com/gravitational/cloud/blob/master/rfd/0017-artifact-storage-standards.md). The Harbor process should be the only service that needs access to modify this bucket. All container operations will occur through Harbor.

### **Security Considerations**

#### **Hosting**
All resources laid out in this RFD will be hosted in the `teleport-prod` AWS account as defined by the [Artifact Storage Standards](https://github.com/gravitational/cloud/blob/master/rfd/0017-artifact-storage-standards.md) RFD. All resources will be configured and deployed using IaC with Terraform in the [cloud-terraform](https://github.com/gravitational/cloud-terraform/) repository.

#### **Patching Harbor**

> Updates to the Harbor environment will be performed by the Core tooling and/or Release Engineers. Cloud tooling and/or Release Engineers can/will assist in this procedure as needed. 

Reviewer: I expect this may be controversial -- core tooling has typically stayed out of the maintenance of self hosted software (drone being the exception -- and even then they're pushing towards GCB).  I'd run this by Jim, especially since the structure of the teams may be up in the air with my departure.

More generally, the discussion here cuts towards: Do we use ECR + some AWS config or Harbor/whatever-self-hosted + some AWS config.  My gut still says ECR, but you've spent a lot more time hands on with the tools than I have, so I trust your judgement.

#### **Application Access using Teleport**

> Secure access to the Harbor UI can be controlled through [Teleport Application Access](https://goteleport.com/docs/application-access/introduction/). The `platform.teleport.sh` cluster would be used to control this access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure access to the Harbor UI can be controlled through [Teleport Application Access](https://goteleport.com/docs/application-access/introduction/). The `platform.teleport.sh` cluster will be used to control this access as it already secures other release infrastructure like releases-prod.platform.teleport.sh.
```

**Amazon ECR Public**

Amazon ECR Public supports [image scanning](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/image-scanning.html) and would leverage our existing Okta SSO infrastructure. Additionally, repositories would be managed using Terraform IaC. However, Amazon ECR Public doesn't have support for custom domains. This means images would be pulled using `public.ecr.aws/gravitational/teleport`.

### **Implementation**
TODO: Include in-depth step by step guide on how the above solution will be created and migrated

* Multi step process. AWS ECR Infrastructure in the `cloud-terraform` repository
* Push to Quay and Harbor
* Replicate existing images from quay.io to ECR
* update documentation to new location 
* retire quay repository

## References
\[1\] - https://access.redhat.com/articles/5925591
\[2\] - https://goharbor.io/
\[3\] - https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/configure-authentication/oidc-auth/

[1]: https://access.redhat.com/articles/5925591
[2]: https://goharbor.io/
[3]: https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/configure-authentication/oidc-auth/

## Brain Dump

> * Is discoverability of the images and tags in scope for this RFD? Should users just assume that for each valid release there is a valid tag? Must ensure that release pipeline succeeds or a core release member should be alerted to fix any issues. 

Reviewer: > Should users just assume that for each valid release there is a valid tag?

Yes.

> Is discoverability of the images and tags in scope for this RFD?

I don't think it is a requirement, but it would be a nice to have.  Certainly call it out as a downside for any alternatives don't support a way to enumerate images.

* Make sure to give reference to precedence of existing RFDS such as:
    * [Terraform Registry](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport-plugins/blob/master/rfd/0002-custom-terraform-registry.md)
    * [Release Asset Management](https://github.com/gravitational/cloud/blob/master/rfd/0004-Release-Asset-Management.md)
    * [Package Distribution](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/10746)
    * [Artifact Storage Standards](https://github.com/gravitational/cloud/blob/master/rfd/0017-artifact-storage-standards.md)

> ### Out of scope 

Reviewer: I'd move all this up to the scope section and add a sentance of detail to each point.

> * Rate limiting

Reviewer: This showed up as in scope (mentioned in the WAF section above).

* Cosign image signing

> * Critical Image alerting? (Scanning with this custom solution requires custom scanning)

Reviewer: I don't understand what this means.  Further detail is needed.

* Discoverability

### In scope
* RFD 17 adherence
* Future of Quay and potential degradation plan (does mirroring rfd play into this)

Appendix of all docker repos in quay and triage
    * what are customer facing and need mirrroing
    * what to delete / deprecate
    * port but are internal only 

Can call out to appendix in the scope section.

Matrix of docker-registry features needed

Isolation mechanisms for containing harbor. Example IAM policies or separate account with cross account roles. 

What
Why
Details
    Overview
        Address expected questions
            * WHy not dockerhub

    Scope
    Infrastructure
        Individual Components Summaries and Justifications
    Implementation
    Alternatives

>     

Reviewer: This can be pruned.
